So we've finished preparing for this fifth challenge of your fifth day.
Now we are going to put it all together, all hands on deck, because we have a very special challenge
coming to you.
Today you are going to program the hangman game.
It's simple, popular, but if you don't know it, let me explain it really quickly.
The program will choose a secret word and we'll show the player only a series of dashes that represent
the number of letters in the word in each turn.
The player must choose a letter if that letter is in the hidden word.
The system will show where it is located.
But if the player chooses a letter that is not in the hidden word, they lose a life in the real hangman
game.
Each time we lose a life, the drawing of the hangman is completed limb by limb.
But in our case, as we still do not have the graphic elements learned for programming, we will simply
tell the user that they have six lives and we will deduct them one by one for each time the player chooses
an incorrect letter.
If the player runs out of leaves before guessing the word, the player loses.
But if they guessed the whole word before losing all their lives, that player wins.
Sounds simple, but how do we design all this in code?
Here are some clues.
First, you are going to create code that imports the choice method, since you are going to need it
so that the system can choose a random word from a list of words that you are also going to create at
the beginning.
After that, you are going to create as many functions as you think necessary for the program to do
things like asking the user to choose a letter, checking if what the user has entered is a valid letter,
checking if the entered letter is in the word or not.
Checking if they have won or not.
Remember to write the functions first, then the code that implements those functions in an orderly
fashion after.
I think this is a special project and I really want you to know that I don't expect you to be able to
solve it without help.
In fact, I will tell you that you're bound to get to a point where you get all the code tangled up
and you will need some help from our solution.
And if that happens, it is totally normal.
The functions look simple, but when we start to put them all together in real code, it is difficult
to mentally follow the succession of the code because it becomes much less linear than before.
So I think you might need some extra help, and that's why I've created an additional lecture with some
hints and tips that might make your life a little bit easier.
If you want, you can start designing the game yourself and go straight to the video containing our
solution to the challenge or not.
Watch the next lecture first to prepare yourself for the challenge.
The important thing is that you give it a try, get your head around the problem, and then we'll see
when you get your solution.
All right.
Go at it.
See you in the next lecture or in our solution video.